---
layout: post
current: post
cover:  assets/images/covers/maxime-le-conte-des-floris-151374.jpg
navigation: True
title: Welcome to Silphid
date: 2017-11-26 08:23:00
tags: 
class: post-template
subclass: 'post tag-getting-started'
author: mathieu
categories: welcome mathieu
---

Hey! Nice to have you here! My name is Mathieu Frenette and I like to call myself a *mindful software designer*.

Of course, I develop software too, but I like to think of my job mostly as a creative one. Juggling, sculpting and assembling ideas, models and flows. Crafting code meticulously like clockworks.  Not only for computers to digest, but especially for real people to live with, starting with my fellow developers, whose experience is significantly impacted, for better or for worse, by the choices I make. Just like the building architect, designing a balanced, functional and agreeable space for people to live in. But in this case a *virtual space*. It's a great responsibility, but also one of the most rewarding challenges I know.

In this blog, I will share with you some of the most uplifting concepts and techniques I have come across in my last two decades of development. Things I have had the opportunity to learn from others, generous enough to share. Things I have created myself, out of problems, failures and frustration, dreaming of a *better way*.

It is far from a complete achievement. In fact, it's only the beginning of the journey. A path I decided to call *mindful software design*.

On this road, we'll cover a broad range of topics, from high level concepts, patterns and best practices, to concrete techniques, like reactive extensions (Rx) and dependency injection (DI), using C# and Unity 3D as our playground. I will also pick many examples out of my [Silphid.Unity](https://github.com/Silphid/Silphid.Unity) framework, which is abundant in interesting patterns to dissect.

Enough said! Good reading and don't forget to [subscribe](#subscribe) to receive the latest posts as they are published !

Bon voyage! :)
Mathieu